Reprinted from
Rendicotti del Circolo Mathematico di Palermo, 2, No.7, 1958.

COMPOSITION ALGEBRAS AND THEIR AUTOMORPHISMS

N. Jacobson (Paris) (1)

The principal objective of the present paper is the study of the automorphisms
and groups of automorphisms of composition algebras, that is, the algebras
arising from quadratic forms which permit composition. These algebras are
mainly quaternion algebras and Cayley algebras. The problem of determining
the quadratic forms which permit composition (HUlW·itz's problem) has been
treated by many authors C). In spite of this, there does not appear in anyone
place a complete solution of this problem in its most general form - which amounts
to the determination of the algebras for an arbitrary field and not just to the
determination of the possible dimensionalities. We give such a solution here
for the case of characteristic not two. Aside from its intrinsic interest and applications to other fields (for example Jordan algebras, absolute valued algebras)
we have still another reason for treating the Hurvitz problem again, namely:
The analysis of the composition algebras is essential for our study of their
automorphisms.
The problem of studying directly the automorphisms of Cayley algebras
has been touched previously by Zorn (3). If the base field is the field of complexes
then the group of automorphisms is the group O2 in the Killing-Cartan classification of simple Lie groups. Analogues of these groups for arbitrary fields
(1) This research was supported in part by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research
under contract AF 49 (638) 1 to.
e) Hurvitz [13], Albert [1], Freudenthal [12]. Linnik [19], Chevalley [7]. Kaplansky [16J.
C) Zorn [21].

[60]

N. Jacobson, Collected Mathematical Papers
© Birkhäuser Boston 1989

341

2

N. JACOBSON

have been defined by Dickson and, quite recently, by Chevalley (1). The groups
of automorphisms of split Cayley algebras are undoubtedly the groups which
Dickson and Chevalley have considered, but we do not establish this here. In
the present paper we study the structure of the group of automorphisms of an
arbitrary Cayley algebra of characteristic not two. We obtain some particularly
simple generators for these groups and we determine the subgroups leaving
fixed the elements of a quaternion subalgebra or a quadratic subalgebra. We
prove also an analogue for Cayley algebras of the theorem that the automorph isms of a central simple associative algebra are all inner.
1. Hurvitz' problem. Let
be a vector space over a field <1>, N(x) a quadratic form defined on
We recall the definition: x ~ N(x) is a mapping of a:
into the base field satisfying N(rxx) = rx 2 N(x) for rx in <1> and having the property that the mapping defined by N(x
y) - N(x) - N(y) is bilinear. The
problem of Hurvitz is that of determining the quadratic forms N(x) which permit
composition in the following sense: There exists a bilinear composition xy in
such that

a:

a:.

+

a:

N(x)N(y) = N(xy),

(1)

x, yEa:.

a:

The assumption that we have a bilinear composition in
is just equivalent
to saying that
is a (non-associative) algebra relative to the given addition,
scalar multiplication and the product xy. We propose to give a completely elementary and self-contained solution of Hurvitz' problem under the following
assumptions: 1. The characteristic of <1> is not two: 2. The bilinear form

a:

(2)

(x, y)

1
= 2[N(x
+ y) - N(x) - N(y)]

a:

a:.

is non-degenerate. 3.
has an identity element 1: 1 x = x = x 1 for all x in
We shall call
together with the quadratic form N a composition algebra.
We note first that 3. is in a certain sense superfluous if the dimensionality
is finite and it can be replaced by another apparently weaker condition in the
general case. Thus assume 1. and 2. (together with (1» and let a be an element
of
such that N(a) ~ O. Such elements exist because of the assumption 2.
Set u = N(a)-l a2 • Then N(u) = 1; hence N(x u) = N(x) = N(u x). It follows
that the linear mappings u x ~ x u and u x ~ u x are 1 - ]. Assume u and
liB are onto. This is automatically satisfied if
is finite dimensional. We call

a:

a:

R :

L :

a:

L

(1) Dickson [9), Chevalley [8).

342

NATHAN JACOBSON: COLLECTED PAPERS-VOLUME 2

